---
title: Fairly Predicting Graft Failure in Liver Transplant for Organ Assigning
author: sirui
date: 2023-11-16 11:00:00 -0600
categories: [Blogging, Papers]
tags: [papers]
math: true
mermaid: true
---

This work proposes a fair machine learning framework targeting graft failure prediction in liver transplant by combining the advantages of tree models and neural networks and a two-step debiasing method is tailored for this framework to enhance fairness.

## Information
- Authors: Sirui Ding, Ruixiang Tang, Daochen Zha, Na Zou, Kai Zhang, Xiaoqian Jiang, Xia Hu
- AMIA Symposium 2022 Best Student Paper Finalist
- [Access Paper](/assets/pdf/Fairly Predicting Graft Failure in Liver Transplant for Organ Assigning.pdf)

## Abstract

Liver transplant is an essential therapy performed for severe liver diseases. The fact of scarce liver resources makes the organ assigning crucial. Model for End-stage Liver Disease (MELD) score is a widely adopted criterion when making organ distribution decisions. However, it ignores post-transplant outcomes and organ/donor features. These limitations motivate the emergence of machine learning (ML) models. Unfortunately, ML models could be unfair and trigger bias against certain groups of people. To tackle this problem, this work proposes a fair machine learning framework targeting graft failure prediction in liver transplant. Specifically, knowledge distillation is employed to handle dense and sparse features by combining the advantages of tree models and neural networks. A two-step debiasing method is tailored for this framework to enhance fairness. Experiments are conducted to analyze unfairness issues in existing models and demonstrate the superiority of our method in both prediction and fairness performance.
