---
title: Upcoming SCA Panel
author: heart
date: 2024-04-04 10:00:00 -0600
categories: [Activity]
tags: [news]
pin: true
math: true
mermaid: true
---

## Session Description
Artificial Intelligence (AI) is revolutionizing the medical field, including perioperative cardiovascular medicine. Understanding the basics of AI, its advantages and pitfalls, and how to utilize the best technology to advance our clinical practice and research and ensure healthcare equity is paramount for SCA members. Our panel consists of experts in medical AI research and political science. We aim to highlight the impact of AI in healthcare, principles and guidelines to develop equitable AI research approaches, and some of the current successful AI research in cardiovascular medicine aiming to improve healthcare disparity.

## Learning Objectives
Attendees will leave the panel with a comprehensive understanding of:

+ Understand generative artificial intelligence opportunities and challenges in healthcare

+ Understand the need for an AI Bill of Rights to ensure equitable healthcare

+ Know the Key principles, guidelines, and strategies for developing equitable and ethical AI/machine learning algorithms

+ How to achieve sustainable success in AI/machine learning health equity education and research through interdisciplinary, innovative, and inclusive approaches.

## Moderator:

Dr. Jiapeng Wang  (Academic Advisory Dean, Tenured Professor & Vice Chairman, Department of Anesthesiology & Perioperative Medicine, University of Louisville, Louisville, KY)

## Speakers:

+ Dr. Xiaoqian Jiang (Professor; Associate Vice President of Medical AI; Chair, Department of Data Science and Artificial Intelligence, the McWilliams School of Biomedical Informatics; The University of Texas Health Science Center of Houston)

 + Title: Large Language Model Opportunity and Challenges in Healthcare

+ Dr. Cheryl Brown (Associate Professor; Chair, Department of Political Science and Public Administration, University of North Carolina at Charlotte)

 + Title: AI Bill of Rights/AI policies, regulations, and ethics

+ Dr. Na Zou (Assistant Professor, Department of Industrial Engineering, University of Houston)

 + Title: The Impact of AI/ML on Ethics, Equity, and Disparities--Strategies to develop equitable and ethical AI/ML algorithms

+ Dr. Yafen Liang (Associate Professor, Vice Chair for Clinical Research, Department of Anesthesiology, Critical Care and Pain Medicine, The University of Texas Health Science Center of Houston; SCA DEI Committee Vice Chair)

 + Title: Utilization of AI/ML in Heart Transplantation disparity and outcome research

+ Dr. Tiffany Williams:(Assistant Professor, Department of Anesthesiology, University of California – UCLA, Awardee of the 2023 SCA Starter/Diversity Grant)
 + Title: Machine Learning of Physiological Waveforms and Electronic Health Record Data: Towards Predicting Hemodynamic Instability in Adult Congenital Heart Disease Surgical Patients

For more information including the date ,location, and registration, please follow our new posts!