---
title: Dr. Na Zou Presented at Beyer Distinguished Lecture Series
author: heart
date: 2024-04-21 10:00:00 -0600
categories: [Activity]
tags: [news]
pin: true
math: true
mermaid: true
---

Our member Dr. Na Zou presented "Exploring and Exploiting Fairness in AI/ML: Algorithms and Applications," at Beyer Distinguished Lecture Series held by Cullen College of Engineering, University of Houston on April 5, 2024.

## Abstract
AI/ML algorithms have made significant advancements and are extensively used in critical applications such as employment, personalized medicine, and more. Despite the success, ensuring fairness in AI/ML remains a significant challenge. These algorithms may inadvertently perpetuate or even magnify biases in the data, resulting in discriminatory outcomes against specific groups or individuals. This issue hinders the widespread adoption of AI/ML in high-stakes applications. This talk will explore the concept of fairness in AI/ML from a computational perspective, encompassing the measurement, detection, and mitigation of unfairness to address diverse challenges throughout the AI/ML life cycle. The speaker will first introduce real-world examples, fundamental concepts and the existing work. The speaker will also focus on the current progress of her research, specifically addressing fairness at three key stages in AI/ML: enhancing data quality, refining algorithmic design, and optimizing model deployment. The talk will be concluded by the future research plan.

[More details](https://www.cive.uh.edu/research/beyer-distinguished-lecture/202401/paving-way-concrete%E2%80%99s-greener-future-development)